README.md, before:

<div align="center"> 

# Apprunner
<img src="/assets/apprunner.jpg" width="450" height="500">
</div>

The premise is simple: add commands to the yml file,run the program, get windows running your stuff! 

Apprunner will build N number of named Tmux windows running the commands you provide. If given a path (and not standalone), the window will be opened at that directory location running the given command.

# Prerequisites/Setup:
1. You DO need Tmux for this: https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki
2. Download the release for your system: https://github.com/BitlyTwiser/apprunner/releases
3. Fill out the yaml
example:
```
apps:
  - name: test1
    command: ping google.com
    standalone: true
    start_location: ./var/thing
  - name: test2
    command: ls -la
    standalone: false 
    start_location: /var/log
```
3. run `./apprunner -config_path=<path_to_yaml_config>`
4. Terminal with your set commands will appear:
![Screenshot](/assets/screenshot1.png)
![Screenshot](/assets/screenshot2.png)

# How it works:
- This program executes tmux hooks to spawn a session, then add N number of windows to the session passing the keys to the given window. I.e. command -> window -> execute.
Example from the CLI:
```
tmux new-session -s test_sesh \; rename-window -t test_sesh:0 inner_window \; send-keys -t test_sesh:inner_window 'echo "hi" |base64' enter
```
This will spawn a new tmux session, create & rename the window, and run the command echoing hi to base64 encode.

# Usage Examples:
Aside from the above example, here are some examples 

Standard configuration path
```
./zig-out/bin/apprunner -config_path="test_config.yml"
```
restore from Resurrect config file:
``` 
./zig-out/bin/apprunner -restore=true
```
Note: restore will *ony* work if you have been running the application and you are using a Tmux version > 1.9! The tmux commands that are necessary to dump the sessions do not exist prior to version 1.9.

# Environment Variables
If you desire to insert a specific set of environment variables to the tmux session at runtime you can add the `env_path` to the yaml file.
The env will be loaded *per session*. For each app that is inserted, the values will be injected for that session.
THis is done using the `-e` flag from the tmux api.

Example:
```
apps:
  - name: test1
    command: ping google.com
    standalone: true
    start_location: ./var/thing
  - name: test2
    command: ls -la
    standalone: false 
    start_location: /var/log
    env_path: .env
```
Note the `env_path` value. This specifies that the .env file should be co-located next to the binary.

You can also use relative paths:
```
apps:
  - name: test1
    command: ping google.com
    standalone: true
    start_location: ./var/thing
  - name: test2
    command: ls -la
    standalone: false 
    start_location: /var/log
    env_path: ../../.env
```

Or full absolute paths:
```
apps:
  - name: test1
    command: ping google.com
    standalone: true
    start_location: ./var/thing
  - name: test2
    command: ls -la
    standalone: false 
    start_location: /var/log
    env_path: /home/place/.env
```


### Tmux Resurrect
Resurrect runs automatically unless disabled with the `-disabled=true` flag.

example:
```
./apprunner -config_path="<file_path>" -disabled=true
```

This will print a warning that disabled is set and resurrect will not run

#### Config file storage:
Resurrect stores a config file at `$HOME/.tmux/resurrect/config.json`

If the $HOME env var is not set for some reason, then its stored at `/home/.tmux/resurrect/config.json`

The folder and file are created automatically at application runtime.

#### Important Notes:
Apprunner will track user sessions that have been created within the apprunner session. It is important to note that this does *not* aply to *all* sessions that might be running!

Apprunner *only* tracks the sessions that was spawned with Apprunner (i.e. by running the program you spawn the session). If you make windows and panes *within* your apprunner sessions, those will also be captured. 

If you create a new shell and start a *new* tmux sessions outside of app runner this would *not* be captured! Only the Apprunner sessions will be caught by the resurrect code :)

If the config.json file is removed, a new file will be created at runtime.


## Roadmap:
- [ ] Multi-pane per window support. Instead of windows only, allow for user to select a split pane layout (i.e. split pane horizontal/vertical etc..) in the Yaml file (Note - Resurrect will capture panes by default if they are created manually in the sessions)
- [X] Save/Store runtime progress (like tmux resurrect)
- [X] Env file loading (provide an .env and have the values loaded into the application)

Commit message:

Closer and thigns are parsing correctly. Errors in spawning the session is present

README.md, after:

<div align="center"> 

# Apprunner
<img src="/assets/apprunner.jpg" width="450" height="500">
</div>

The premise is simple: add commands to the yml file,run the program, get windows running your stuff! 

Apprunner will build N number of named Tmux windows running the commands you provide. If given a path (and not standalone), the window will be opened at that directory location running the given command.

# Prerequisites/Setup:
1. You DO need Tmux for this: https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki
2. Download the release for your system: https://github.com/BitlyTwiser/apprunner/releases
3. Fill out the yaml
example:
```
apps:
  - name: test1
    command: ping google.com
    standalone: true
    start_location: ./var/thing
  - name: test2
    command: ls -la
    standalone: false 
    start_location: /var/log
```
3. run `./apprunner -config_path=<path_to_yaml_config>`
4. Terminal with your set commands will appear:
![Screenshot](/assets/screenshot1.png)
![Screenshot](/assets/screenshot2.png)

# How it works:
- This program executes tmux hooks to spawn a session, then add N number of windows to the session passing the keys to the given window. I.e. command -> window -> execute.
Example from the CLI:
```
tmux new-session -s test_sesh \; rename-window -t test_sesh:0 inner_window \; send-keys -t test_sesh:inner_window 'echo "hi" |base64' enter
```
This will spawn a new tmux session, create & rename the window, and run the command echoing hi to base64 encode.

# Usage Examples:
Aside from the above example, here are some examples 

Standard configuration path
```
./zig-out/bin/apprunner -config_path="test_config.yml"
```
restore from Resurrect config file:
``` 
./zig-out/bin/apprunner -restore=true
```
Note: restore will *ony* work if you have been running the application and you are using a Tmux version > 1.9! The tmux commands that are necessary to dump the sessions do not exist prior to version 1.9.

# Environment Variables
If you desire to insert a specific set of environment variables to the tmux session at runtime you can add the `env_path` to the yaml file.
The env will be loaded *per session*. For each app that is inserted, the values will be injected for that session.
THis is done using the `-e` flag from the tmux api.

Example:
```
apps:
  - name: test1
    command: ping google.com
    standalone: true
    start_location: ./var/thing
  - name: test2
    command: ls -la
    standalone: false 
    start_location: /var/log
    env_path: .env
```
Note the `env_path` value. This specifies that the .env file should be co-located next to the binary.

You can also use relative paths:
```
apps:
  - name: test1
    command: ping google.com
    standalone: true
    start_location: ./var/thing
  - name: test2
    command: ls -la
    standalone: false 
    start_location: /var/log
    env_path: ../../.env
```

Or full absolute paths:
```
apps:
  - name: test1
    command: ping google.com
    standalone: true
    start_location: ./var/thing
  - name: test2
    command: ls -la
    standalone: false 
    start_location: /var/log
    env_path: /home/place/.env
```


### Tmux Resurrect
Resurrect runs automatically unless disabled with the `-disabled=true` flag.

example:
```
./apprunner -config_path="<file_path>" -disabled=true
```

This will print a warning that disabled is set and resurrect will not run.

To restore your session, just run:

```
./zig-out/bin/apprunner -restore=true
```

#### Config file storage:
Resurrect stores a config file at `$HOME/.tmux/resurrect/config.json`

If the $HOME env var is not set for some reason, then its stored at `/home/.tmux/resurrect/config.json`

The folder and file are created automatically at application runtime.

#### Important Notes:
Apprunner will track user sessions that have been created within the apprunner session. It is important to note that this does *not* aply to *all* sessions that might be running!

Apprunner *only* tracks the sessions that was spawned with Apprunner (i.e. by running the program you spawn the session). If you make windows and panes *within* your apprunner sessions, those will also be captured. 

If you create a new shell and start a *new* tmux sessions outside of app runner this would *not* be captured! Only the Apprunner sessions will be caught by the resurrect code :)

If the config.json file is removed, a new file will be created at runtime.


## Roadmap:
- [ ] Multi-pane per window support. Instead of windows only, allow for user to select a split pane layout (i.e. split pane horizontal/vertical etc..) in the Yaml file (Note - Resurrect will capture panes by default if they are created manually in the sessions)
- [X] Save/Store runtime progress (like tmux resurrect)
- [X] Env file loading (provide an .env and have the values loaded into the application)
